In this lecture, we are going to update the custom admin page to output a form.
This form will contain fields for modifying the values from our custom option.
In total, there will be four fields before getting started.
We must make an important decision.
Should the form match the design of WordPress or should we use a custom design?
There is no right or wrong answer.
Often you'll find plugin developers going with either option.
In my opinion, it's easier to use WordPress classes for designing a form.
This approach provides a consistent user experience.
Unfortunately, WordPress does not document its classes in the resource section of this lecture, I
provide a link to a plugin.
This plugin is called WordPress Admin Styles.
It's a plugin aimed at developers and will provide a complete list of classes for generating specific
UI elements.
I find it incredibly helpful for designing custom admin pages.
This plugin cannot be installed from the official WordPress repository.
You must manually install this plug in.
A zip file can be downloaded by clicking on the code button.
A link will appear for downloading a zip file.
I want you to download this plugin, upload it to our WordPress site and activate it.
I'm going to quickly add this plugin to my site.
After activating the plugin, a new menu item will be available called Admin Style.
Let's click on this link.
We are taking to a page with a long list of different elements that are supported in WordPress.
There are even examples I recommend bookmarking this plugin as it will help you design admin pages ahead
of time.
I've prepared a form for this section.
In the resource section of this lecture, I provide a link to a gist.
This gist contains a static form with styles from WordPress.
None of these elements contain custom styles.
Everything is defined by WordPress.
I want you to copy this code.
Next open the options page.
PHP file.
Paste this code inside the div tag with the wrap class.
Most of this template is static.
There is one thing worth mentioning scattered throughout the template.
There's a function called escape h.
HTML e.
This function is another translation function available in WordPress.
It'll output a translated message.
It's similar to the underscore e function with one exception.
This function will escape HTML from the message.
This is to prevent malicious translation messages from appearing on the page.
Other than that, these functions have the same arguments.
The entire template is borrowing classes from WordPress.
If you were to quickly scan through the template, it's a form element with four fields.
Let's begin updating this template to output the values from the options at the top of the function.
Define a variable called options.
The value for this variable will be the git option function.
The name of our option was called up options.
Great.
We can begin updating the form first.
Let's start with the form element.
Up until now, we've been sending requests with JavaScript.
However, let's take a different approach rather than submitting a form with JavaScript.
Let's submit it the old fashioned way.
This will give us an opportunity to explore an alternative solution for handling form submissions.
You may not always be able to use the rest API.
This is especially true if you're working with an old plugin.
The traditional solution of submitting forms is common in older plugins on the form element.
Add an attribute called method with a value of post.
The HTTP method of a request can be configured by adding the method attribute to the form element.
In this example, we are using the post method.
Next, let's set the URL by adding the action attributes.
The value for this attribute will be a file called admin post PHP.
The action attribute allows us to send the request to a specific URL for our form.
We are going to send the data to a file called admin post PHP.
This file exists within the WP admin folder.
The browser will be able to send the data to the relative path.
WordPress recommends sending form data to this file.
The form element is ready.
The next step is to update the fields at the top of the form element.
Add a hidden input.
The name of this input must be called action.
Multiple forms can submit data to the same file.
WordPress does not know where the data is coming from.
We can associate our data with our form by adding a hidden input with a name called Action.
You can think of it as a unique ID for our form.
The value for this input must be a unique value.
Let's set the action input to up save options.
The input is the most important field in our form.
Without this input, we will not be able to process the form.
Next, let's run a function called WP Knots Fields.
For security.
We should always add a nonce.
Nazis are a security feature in WordPress.
It stands for number used once.
A nonce is a random value that can only be used once.
WordPress uses Nazis for validating form submissions.
If we send a nonce with our form, WordPress will check the validity of the nonce.
This is a basic security technique for presenting users outside our site from submitting this form.
If hackers want to send our form, they need to generate a nonce which is not easy without WordPress.
Nazis can be handled and validated by word press.
We do not need to worry about the complexities of using Nazis.
However, if you're interested, check out the resource section of this lecture for a link to this feature.
WordPress provides extensive documentation on how this feature can help secure forms.
Let's head back to the editor.
This function requires a unique ID for the nonce.
Let's set the ID to up options.
Verify.
After adding these fields, we can proceed to update the inputs.
The first input is for the open graph title.
I've added a table for formatting the inputs.
WordPress itself uses tables for formatting forms for every input I've assigned a name.
The name is very important.
During the submission process, the values for each input can be found by their respective name.
In the next lecture, you'll see an example of how these values are retrieved on this input.
Let's add the attribute value.
The value for this attribute will be the escape attribute function with the options OG title variable.
We're escaping the output with the escape attribute function.
It's the recommended function for rendering values in attributes.
The value will be echoed since the escape attribute function returns a value.
Let's do the same for the other fields.
The next field is for the image.
This field has a hidden input on this input.
Set the value attribute to the escape attribute function with the options OG image variable.
Let's apply the same value to the source attribute on the image tag.
This tag will display a preview of the image.
Moving on, we have the field for the open graph description.
This time we're using a text area element inside the text area.
Tags echo the escape HTML function with the options OG description variable.
There's one more field.
It is a checkbox.
Unlike the other fields, we're not going to set the value and said we are going to add the checked
attribute.
WordPress has a function for adding this attribute to an input.
It's cleaner than using a conditional statement inside the input elements.
Attribute run a function called checked.
This function has two arguments.
It's the values to compare.
If both values match, WordPress will output the checked attributes.
Let's pass in one and the options enable ogg variable.
The fields are already.
There's one last thing to add to the form.
We do not have a button for submitting the form below the closing table tag run a function called Submit
button.
This function is a convenient feature for rendering a button with styles from WordPress.
We do not need to hard code the button ourselves.
Our form is ready.
Let's check out the results in the browser.
Refresh the custom admin page.
You should see something similar to my screen.
The title and description should have their inputs prefilled.
In addition, the open graph option should be ticked by defaults.
We're going to enable open graph for the current site.
Let's inspect the form.
Directly under the form elements, there are three inputs.
The last two inputs are hidden.
These inputs were generated by the WP Nonce Field function.
WordPress will handle configuring these inputs for validation on the back end.
Now that we verified the form is functional, the next step is to handle the form submission.
In the next lecture, let's handle this process.